### 10.60 Mixing

exhaust ventilation to provide a minimum velocity of 150 fpm though all
openings.  Additional ventilation may be required when flammable
solvents are used. Dilution ventilation rates should maintai
concentrations within the muller below 25% of the Lower Explosive Limit
(LEL).



### 10.70 Open Surface Tanks

Ventilation rates for plating, cleaningnand other open surface tank
operations well depend on a number and location, and type of ventilation
system. This section describes four hood/ventilation types: eclosing and
canopy hoods, lateral exhaust, and push-pull.

Lateral hoods >> a single slot may be used on one side of the tank width
is 36 inches or less. for widths greater than 36 inches and where the
process configuration will allow, two slot hoods on opposite sides of
the tank or a slot hood along the tank centreline may be used.  A single
slot may be used up to a tank width of 48 inches but only if the
material hazard class is low and if cross-drafts are not present.

Tank design considersations

Duct velocity -any desired velocity

Entry loss - 1.78 slot VP plus duct entry loss for slot hoods. For
canopy or enclosure hoods, entry loss = duct entry loss.

Slot velocity - 2000 fpm unless distribution is provided by
well-designed, tapered takeoff.

Provide ample area at tha small end of the plenum.

If L= 6' or greater, multitle takeoffs are desirable. if L = 10' or
greater, muliple takeoffs are necessary.

Tank width (W) means the effective width over which the hood must pull
air to operate (e.g. where the hood face is set back from the edge of
the tank, this setback must be added in measuring tank width.

If W = 20", slot on one side is suitable
If W = 20 - 36", slots of both sides are desirable.
If W = 36 - 48", use slots on both sides or along tank centerline or use
push-pull. A single slot along one side should not be used unless all
other conditions are optimum.
If W = 48" or greater, local exhauest usually is not practical. Consider
using push-pull.

Enclosure can be used for any width tank if process will permit.

It is not practicable to ventilate across the long dimension of a tank
whose ratio W/L exceeds 2.0. It is undesirable to no so when W/L exceeds
1.0

Liquid level should be 6 to 8 " below top of tank with parts immersed.

Lateral hood types A, C, D and E are preferred. Plenum acts as baffle to
room air currents.

Provide removable covers on tank if possible.

Provide duct with cleanouts, drains and corrosion-resistant coating if
necessary. Use flexible connection at fan inlet.

Install baffles to reduce cross-drafts. A baffle is a vertical plate the
same length as the tank is wide. If the exhaust hood is on the side of
the tank against a building wall or close to it, it is perfectly
baffled.

Replacement air to the tank area must bu supplied evenly and directed
toward the tank from above or in front of the tank so that cross-drafts
do not occur.

*Flow Rate Calculation for Good Conditions:

1. Establish process class by determining hazard potential from Tables
   10.70.1 and .2; information from Threshold Limit Values, Solvent
   Flash Point, Solvent Drying Time Tables in Appendices A and B and
   Tables 10.70.5-10.70.8
   
2. Process class can also be established directly from Tables 10.70.5 -
   10.70.8 if process parameters are known.
   
3. From Table 10.70.3 choose minimum control velocity according to
   hazared pontential; evolution rate and hood design
   
4. From table 10.70.4 select the $cfm/ft^2$ for tank dimensions and tank
   location.
   
5. Multiply tank area by value obtained from Table 10.70.4 to calculate
   required air volume.
   
 Control of airborne pollutant by ventilation may be accomplished
 through the such of VS-75-01 and VS-75-04.
 
 Booth depth is critical; spray rebound may escape from shallow booths
 and increase exposures. The size of the booth is governed principally
 by the size of the object being coated. Sufficient space must be
 provided to permit air flow on all sides of the object, being coated.
 Sufficient space must be provided to permit air flow on all sides of
 the object, to provide room to work, and to enable the air to enter the
 booth in a smooth, controller manner without excessive wrap-around.
 
 In air-atomization aplications, the most common spray techinque, it is
 important to use the minimum air pressure needed to accomplish the
 task. Excess air pressure results in increased dispersion of the paitn
 and overspray as well as poor work quality.
 
 
 

 

