### ASHRAE

As it related to ASHRAE 110, the performance rating or performance fator is a series of numbers and letters consisteir of the letters AM, AIm or AU or a two- or three-digit number, AM yyy,  AI yyy ... where AM idenfieid as "as manufacturer."

A test rating of AI 0.05 for exmpale would indicate thtat the hood, as installed controls leakagae into the laboratory of 0.5 ppm at the manikin's sensing point with thetragas release rate of 4.0 lpm. TOher standards of good practice may also include similar measure of performance. Antoher apoorach usedc in the past is to estimate the ratio of the concentration of a contaminate in the exhausxt air vs the concentration in the breathing zone of a person acutally workig in front of the hood. This has also been identified as the Protection Factor

$$ ProtectionFactor(PF) = C_exhaust_air / C_breathing_zone
$$

$$ \frac{\Delta Q}{t}$$

In addition to the acceleartion of air, static pressure losses in LEV systems arise from the following cases: #parameters 

- Entrace loss into hood;
- Friction of fluid flow in ducts, plenums and other airways, elbows, brach entries into mains;
- Turbulence and shock losses due to changes in air velocity or direction as in fittings such as elbows, branch entries, expansions or contractions in cross-sectional area;
- Resistance to flow of airzcleaning devices; and
- System effects at fan inlets and outlets;


### Balancing

LEV systems are normaylly design or evaluated using the Velocity Pressure Method of design, as described in the reference. The Velocity Pressure Mehtod of design is a balanced approach, which attempts to equate system losses to fraction of velocity pressure in the ductorwork:  #parameters  #duct 

$$ Loss = K \cdot VP \cdot d
$$
where:
K - the loss factor
VP - avereage velocity pressure,
d - air density correction factor



Other balanced design procedures include: the Total Presssure Method, the Equivalent Foot method, the Plenum method, and the Damper Balance method. These methods in ACGIH Industrial Ventilation Manual [[Industrial Ventilation Manual.pdf]]

### IFC Section 37 #flammability  #toxicity

IFC references treatment device which prevent an accident release of air contaminants above 50% of the IDLH at the stack. The IFC also references 25% (versus 10%) of the LFL for ducting throughout. Check your local fire and building.  CFC 2019 *add reference here if found*


### Regulation

Refer to 40 CFR part 60 -64 for sampling method for regulation emisisions. 
Another technical resource is Emission Measurement Technical Information Cetner at  [here](http:\\www.epa.gov\ttn\direct\html)



### Consideration #design


Ensure that the fan inlet and outlet are located at a sufficient distance from any elbow, obstruction or other air flow altering system compoennt. If these components must be placed the designer must account for the pressure losses. Fan system design consideration can be found in the AMCA Fan Application Manual


### Shutoff 

Shutoff capaibities can alos be provied at the hood so that hood users can shut the system down during emergencies.


### Good Practices

Good practices which will help assure effective operation
[[ANSI-AIHA Fundamentals Design and Operation-Local exhaust Ventilation Systems.pdf#page=62]]
#design
Gage of Ducts: welding on gages lighter than 16 is impractical

Reinforcement of Certain Parts: For ducts No. 14 gage and heavierm, the elbows, bends , and straight duct may be of the same gage. For large booth and enclosures, gages of the same weight as connecting duct work may be used provided that strcuture is adequately braced and flanged to prevent bucling or damage from normal abuse.

Junctions with submian or mains hsould be at an angle of not greater than 45 degrees measures along the center line; 30 degress or less is recommended where feasiblle


Elbow Construction: 90 degree elbows in round duct should be of smooht contour or at lesat five-piece construction for ducts 6 inches in diameter or less, and of seven-piece construction for larger ducts, or of equivalent smoother countour. The centerline radius should be 2x and no less than 1.5 5the duct diameter unless lack of space prohibits the use of long bends.

Transition Construction: transition pieces should be tapered at an angle of about 15 degrees. Transition pieces should increase in corss-sectional area by the amount necesary to maintain the air velocity established and hsould be constructed of material equal in gage to the material of the connecting duct at the larger end.



### Audit Form

[[ANSI-AIHA Fundamentals Design and Operation-Local exhaust Ventilation Systems.pdf#page=67]]


